**Title**: “Metabolic disturbances and inflammatory dysfunction predict
severity of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19): a retrospective study”
Shuke Nie & al, Zhan Zhang Lab, 3.01.2020

**Key words**: metabolism, fasting blood glucose, serum total protein,
albumin, blood lipid, HDL-C, APOA1, lymphocytopenia, IL-6, CRP, severity
prediction of COVID19

**Summary**: Retrospective Study on 97 COVID-19 hospitalized patients
(25 severe and 72 non-severe) analyzing clinical and laboratory
parameter to predict transition from mild to severe disease based on
more accessible indicators (such as fasting blood glucose, serum protein
or blood lipid) than inflammatory indicators. In accordance with other
studies, age and hypertension were risk factors for disease severity,
and lymphopenia and increased IL-6 was observed in severe patients. The
authors show that fasting blood glucose (FBG) was altered and patients
with severe disease were often hyperglycemic. Data presented support
that hypoproteinaemia, hypoalbuminemia, and reduction in
high-densitylipoprotein (HDL-C) and ApoA1 were associated with disease
severity.

**Limitations**:

In this study non-severe patients were divided in two groups based on
average course of the disease: mild group1 (14 days, n=28) and mild
group 2 (30 days, n=44). However mild patients with a longer disease
course did not show an intermediate phenotype (between mild patients
with shorter disease course and severe patients), hence it is unclear
whether this was a useful and how it impacted the analysis. Furthermore,
the non-exclusion of co-morbidity factors in the analysis may bias the
results (e.g. diabetic patients and glucose tests) It is not clear at
what point in time the laboratory parameters are sampled. In table 3, it
would have been interesting to explore a multivariate multiple
regression. The correlation lacks of positive control to assess the
specificity of the correlation to the disease vs. correlation in any
inflammatory case. The dynamic study assessing the predictability of the
laboratory parameter is limited to 2 patients. Hence there are several
associations with disease severity, but larger studies are necessary to
test the independent predictive value of these potential biomarkers.

**Findings implications**: As hospital are getting overwhelmed a set of
easily accessible laboratory indicators (such as serum total protein)
would potentially provide a triage methodology between potentially
severe cases and mild ones. This paper also opens the question regarding
metabolic deregulation and COVID-19 severity.
