### Protection of Rhesus Macaque from SARS-Coronavirus challenge by recombinant adenovirus vaccine

Chen et al. *bioRxiv* [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.17.951939]

#### Keywords

- SARS-CoV-1
- rhesus macaque
- recombinant adenovirus vaccine

#### Main Findings

Rhesus macaques were immunized intramuscularly twice (week 0 and
week 4) with SV8000 carrying the information to express a S1-orf8
fusion protein and the N protein from the BJ01 strain of SARS-CoV-1.
By week 8, immunized animals had signs of immunological protection
(IgG and neutralization titers) against SARS-CoV-1 and were
protected against challenge with the PUMC-1 strain, with fewer
detectable symptoms of respiratory distress, lower viral load,
shorter periods of viral persistence, and less pathology in the
lungs compared to non-immunized animals.

#### Limitations

The authors should write clearer descriptions of the methods used in
this article. They do not describe how the IgG titers or
neutralization titers were determined. There are some issues with
the presentation of data, for example, in Figure 1a, y-axis should
not be Vmax; forming cells and 1d would benefit from showing error
bars. Furthermore, although I inferred that the animals were
challenged at week 8, the authors did not explicitly detail when the
animals were challenged. The authors should explain the design of
their vaccine, including the choice of antigens and vector. The
authors also do not include a description of the ethical use of
animals in their study.

#### Significance

The authors describe a vaccine for SARS-CoV-1 with no discussion of
possible implications for the current SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. Could a
similar vaccine be designed to protect against SARS-CoV-2 and would
the concerns regarding emerging viral mutations that the authors
describe as a limitation for SARS-CoV-1 also be true in the context
of SARS-CoV-2?

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
