**Heat inactivation of serum interferes with the immunoanalysis of
antibodies to SARS-CoV-2**

Heat inactivation, immunochromatography, diagnosis, serum antibodies,
IgM, IgG

*Summary*

The use of heat inactivation to neutralize pathogens in serum samples
collected from suspected COVID-19 patients reduces the sensitivity of a
fluorescent immunochromatographic assay to detect anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgM
and IgG.

*Major findings*

Coronaviruses can be killed by heat inactivation, and this is an
important safety precaution in laboratory manipulation of clinical
samples. However, the effect of this step on downstream
SARS-CoV-2-specific serum antibody assays has not been examined. The
authors tested the effect of heat inactivation (56 deg C for 30 minutes)
versus no heat inactivation on a fluorescence immunochromatography
assay. Heat inactivation reduced all IgM measurements by an average of
54% and most IgG measurements (22/36 samples, average reduction of 50%),
consistent with the lower thermal stability of IgM than that of IgG.
Heat inactivation caused a subset of IgM but not IgG readings to fall
below a specified positivity threshold.

*Limitations*

Limitations included the use of only one type of assay for testing heat
inactivated vs non-inactivated sera, and the use of the same baseline
for heat inactivated and non-inactivated sera. The results indicate that
heat inactivation affects the quantification of SARS-CoV-2-antibody
response, specially IgM, but still allows to distinguish positive
specific IgG. Therefore, the effect of heat inactivation should be
studied when designing assays that quantitatively associate
immunoglobulin levels (especially IgM) to immune state.

*Review by Andrew M. Leader as part of a project by students, postdocs
and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn school of medicine,
Mount Sinai.*
