A highly conserved cryptic epitope in the receptor-binding domains of
SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV

[*https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.13.991570*](https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.13.991570) 

key words: neutralizing antibody, cross-reactivity

Given the sequence similarity of the surface spike glycoprotein (S) of
SARS-CoV-2 and SAR-CoV, Yuan et al. (2020) propose that neutralizing
antibodies isolated from convalescent SARS-CoV patients may offer
insight into cross-reactive antibodies targeting SARS-CoV-2. In
particular, they find that the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of
SARS-CoV-2 S protein shares 86% sequence similarity with the RBD of
SARS-CoV S protein that binds to the CR3022 neutralizing antibody.
CR3022 also displays increased affinity for the “up” conformation of the
SARS-CoV-2 S protein compared to the “down” conformation as it does for
the SARS-CoV S protein. Therefore, the authors propose that this
cross-reactive antibody may confer some degree of protection *in vivo*
even if it fails to neutralize *in vitro*.

Limitations: Although the authors offer a logical rationale for
identifying cross-reactive neutralizing antibodies derived from
SARS-CoV, their study using only CR3022 failed to demonstrate whether
this approach will be successful. After all, CR3022 failed to neutralize
*in vitro* despite the binding affinity to a similar epitope on
SARS-CoV-2. They would benefit from testing more candidates and using an
*in vivo* model to demonstrate their claim that protection may be
possible in the absence neutralization if combinations are used *in
vivo.*

Significance: The ability to make use of previously characterized
neutralizing antibodies for conserved epitopes can expedite drug design
and treatment options.

Review by Dan Fu Ruan, Evan Cody and Venu Pothula
