### Clinical Characteristics of 2019 Novel Infected Coronavirus Pneumoniaï¼šA Systemic Review and Meta-analysis

Qian et al. *medRxiv*.
[@doi:10.1101/2020.02.14.20021535]

#### Keywords
- White Blood Cells
- Lymphocytes
- Neutrophils

#### Main Findings

The authors performed a meta analysis of literature on clinical,
laboratory and radiologic characteristics of patients presenting with
pneumonia related to SARSCoV2 infection, published up to Feb 6 2020.
They found that symptoms that were mostly consistent among studies were
sore throat, headache, diarrhea and rhinorrhea. Fever, cough, malaise
and muscle pain were highly variable across studies. Leukopenia (mostly
lymphocytopenia) and increased white blood cells were highly variable
across studies. They identified three most common patterns seen on CT
scan, but there was high variability across studies. Consistently across
the studies examined, the authors found that about 75% of patients need
supplemental oxygen therapy, about 23% mechanical ventilation and about
5% extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). The authors calculated a
staggering pooled mortality incidence of 78% for these patients.

#### Limitations

The authors mention that the total number of studies included in this
meta analysis is nine, however they also mentioned that only three
studies reported individual patient data. It is overall unclear how many
patients in total were included in their analysis. This is mostly
relevant as they reported an incredibly high mortality (78%) and mention
an absolute number of deaths of 26 cases overall. It is not clear from
their report how the mortality rate was calculated.

The data is based on reports from China and mostly from the Wuhan area,
which somewhat limits the overall generalizability and applicability of
these results.

#### Significance

This meta analysis offers some important data for clinicians to refer to
when dealing with patients with COVID-19 and specifically with
pneumonia. It is very helpful to set expectations about the course of
the disease.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
