a.**Structure, Function, and Antigenicity of the SARSCoV-2 Spike
Glycoprotein**

b\. **binding affinity, antigenicity, neutralizing antibody**

c\. **The authors highlight a human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2
(hACE2), as a potential receptor used by the current Severe Acute
respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) as a host factor that
allows the virus target human cells. This virus-host interaction
facilitates the infection of human cells with a high affinity comparable
with SARS-CoV. The authors propose this mechanism as a probable
explanation of the efficient transmission of SARS-CoV-2 between humans.
Besides, Walls and colleagues described SARS-CoV-2 S glycoprotein S by
Cryo-EM along with neutralizing polyclonal response against SAR-CoV-2 S
from mice immunized with SAR-CoV and blocking SAR-CoV-2 S-mediated entry
into VeroE6 infected cells.**

d\. **The SARS-CoV-2 depends on the cell factors ACE2 and TMPRSS2, this
last, according to a recent manuscript by Markus Hoffman et al., *Cell*,
2020. The authors used green monkey (VeroE6) and hamster (BHK) cell
lines in the experiments to drive its conclusions to humans; however, it
is well known the caucasian colon adenocarcinoma human cell line
(CaCo-2), highly express the hACE2 receptor as the TMPRSS2 protease as
well. In humans, ACE2 protein is highly expressed in the
gastrointestinal tract, which again, makes the CaCo-2 cell line suitable
for the following SARS-CoV-2 studies.**

e.Â **The results propose a functional receptor used by SARS-CoV-2 to
infect humans worldwide and defining two distinct conformations of spike
(S) glycoprotein by cryogenic electron microscopy (Cryo-EM). This study
might help establish a precedent for initial drug design and treatment
of the current global human coronavirus epidemic.**
