**Title**: “The potential role of IL-6 in monitoring severe case of
coronavirus disease 2019” Tao Liu & al, Jianhua Yi Lab, 3.01.2020

**Key words**: Cytokine Release Syndrome, lymphocytopenia, IL-6, CRP,
COVID19, pneumonia

**Summary**: Study on blood biomarkers on 80 COVID19 patients (69 severe
and 11 non-severe). Patients with severe symptoms at admission
(baseline) showed obvious lymphocytopenia and significantly increased
interleukin-6 (IL-6) and CRP, which was positively correlated with
symptoms severity. IL-6 at baseline positively correlates with CRP, LDH,
ferritin and D-Dimer abundance in blood.

Longitudinal analysis of 30 patients (before and after treatment) showed
significant reduction of IL-6 in remission cases.

 

**Limitations**: Limited sample size at baseline, especially for the
non-severe leads to question on representativeness. The longitudinal
study method is not described in detail and suffers from
non-standardized treatment. Limited panel of pro-inflammatory cytokine
was analyzed. Patients with severe disease show a wide range of altered
blood composition and biomarkers of inflammation, as well as differences
in disease course (53.6% were cured, about 10% developed acute
respiratory distress syndrome). The authors comment on associations
between IL-6 levels and outcomes, but these were not statistically
significant (maybe due to the number of patients, non-standardized
treatments, etc.) and data is not shown. Prognostic biomarkers could
have been better explored. Study lacks multivariate analysis.

**Findings implications**: IL-6 could be used as a pharmacodynamic
marker of disease severity. Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) is a
well-known side effect for CAR-T cancer therapy and there are several
effective drugs to manage CRS. Drugs used to manage CRS could be tested
to treat the most severe cases of COVID19.

 
