### Clinical and Laboratory Profiles of 75 Hospitalized Patients with Novel Coronavirus Disease 2019 in Hefei, China

Zhao et al. *medRxiv*. [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.01.20029785]

#### Keywords

- Routine laboratory testing

#### Main Findings

The authors of this study provide a comprehensive analysis of clinical
laboratory assessments in 75 patients (median age 47 year old)
hospitalized for Corona virus infection in China measuring differential
blood counts including T-cell subsets (CD4, CD8), coagulation function,
basic blood chemistry, of infection-related biomarkers including CRP,
Procalcitonin (PCT) (Precursor of calcitonin that increases during
bacterial infection or tissue injury), IL-6 and erythrocyte
sedimentation rate as well as clinical parameters. Among the most common
hematological changes they found increased neutrophils, reduced CD4 and
CD8 lymphocytes, increased LDH, CRP and PCT

When looking at patients with elevated IL-6, the authors describe
significantly reduced CD4 and CD8 lymphocyte counts and elevated CRP and
PCT levels were significantly increased in infected patients suggesting
that increased IL-6 may correlate well with disease severity in COVID-19
infections

#### Limitations

The authors performed an early assessment of clinical standard
parameters in patients infected with COVID-19. Overall, the number of
cases (75) is rather low and the snapshot approach does not inform about
dynamics and thus potential relevance in the assessment of treatment
options in this group of patients.

#### Significance

The article summarizes provides a good summary of some of the common
changes in immune cells inflammatory cytokines in patients with a
COVID-19 infection and. Understanding how these changes can help predict
severity of disease and guide therapy including IL-6 cytokine receptor
blockade using Tocilizumab or Sarilumab will be important to explore.

#### Credit

*This review was undertaken as part of a project by students, postdocs and faculty at the Immunology Institute of the Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai.*
